Helen, I'm Dr. Jonathan Barker, pastor here at Amazing Grace Baptist Church in Mount area, North Carolina.
I would like to personally thank you for taking out time today to tune in to our preaching podcast.
We hope that this message will be a great encouragement to your heart today.
I'm 72 verse 18.
Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel who only doeth wondrous things.
Now we called your attention really to the last part of that verse and used it as a launching point who only doeth wondrous things.
And this morning, God began preaching on this thought, worship that is born out of wonder.
Worship born
out of when we see how wonderful he is, it should cause us to worship him.
Amen.
Father, we love you tonight.
Thank you, God, for helping us this morning.
God, thank you, Lord, for the good singing tonight thus far, the good spirit and the service.
God, thank you, Lord, for a church that's mission-minded and wants to help with world missions, God.
Lord, I pray that over the next few minutes you'd help us recall the things in which we've studied.
I pray, God, that you'd give us
fresh oil tonight, preach us and use us God tonight as only you can and we'll give you glory in Jesus' name, amen and amen.
You can be seated tonight.
Again, I started this morning on worship born out of wonder.
We began talking about how God can only do wonderful things.
Matter of fact, we went to Jeremiah and called our attention to verse number three of chapter 33 where he said, call unto me
and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knewest not.
We made reference to what Mary said in Luke chapter number one in verse 49, for he that is mighty hath done to me great things.
And he is a wonderful God tonight.
That word wondrous means to be marvelous, be wonderful, be surpassing,
extraordinary, separate by distinguishing actions to do extraordinary or hard or difficult things, to make wonderful and to do wondrously.
And when we think about God tonight, we can truly say that He is a wondrous God tonight.
Amen.
Number one, this morning I preached on the adoration that God deserves.
adoration that God deserves.
Of course, we looked at that first word, blessed in verse 18 of our text.
And in this word, we find that the expression of adoration and that word adoration means this.
The act of paying honor to a divine being.
The adoration that God deserves.
God deserves us giving
God deserves us worshiping him tonight for who he is.
We talked about this this morning.
There's the attitude of adoration.
Then there's the action of adoration.
And then we closed out with there is the announcement of adoration.
Our attitude of adoration will help our action of adoration.
And if our attitude and our action of adoration
is right, then it will not be long till there'll be an announcement made about the goodness of God and how good he is.
True adoration does not remain hidden in the heart and it does not stop with a posture alone.
It finds its way to the lips of the believer and he begins to announce how good God is.
Worship born out of wonder will always result
in a verbal praise.
And we talked about that.
Number two tonight, I want to move on.
We see the adoration that God deserves.
And I want to just say this in passing.
He does deserve the adoration tonight.
Amen.
He does deserve the praise tonight.
He does deserve the honor tonight.
There is no one else that deserves that.
He alone deserves
the adoration that we give to him.
Number two tonight, I not only see the adoration that God deserves, but I want you to see this.
I want you to see number two, the acclamation that God declares.
The acclamation that God declares.
Note again in our text verse, blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel.
There is an acclamation that God declares here.
The psalmist is responding to God's revelation and declaration of himself as the Lord God and the God of Israel.
God has many names and each name that he has declares his personality and who he is.
Look at the names of God that the psalmist use here in 7218.
He uses the word Lord.
God and then the God of Israel.
First notice this with me in the acclamation that God declares.
He declares the permanent God, the permanent God.
That's always been, that still is, and always will be.
He is a permanent God.
Notice the name Lord there.
It's capital O, capital O, capital R, and capital D. You'll notice in your Bible that the name is in all capital letters.
Whenever you see the name Lord written in all capital letters, it indicates that he is referring to the name Jehovah among all
the names of God none is more significant and sacred than this name.
The name declares God to be the self-existing and unchanging God.
Can I say this about him tonight?
He is the self-existing and the unchanging God.
He said, I am the Lord thy God and thy change not.
What that means is simply this.
What he done in days gone by he can do to
Why?
Because he is a permanent God.
Revival does not have to be something that we read about in the history books.
But God's still God.
God has never changed.
God will never change.
He is a permanent God.
He's a permanent God.
I thought about this.
Newbie defines it.
Defines it as this.
He that always was.
That always is.
And that ever will be to come.
Matter of fact, Revelation said it this way.
and omega, the beginning and the end said the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come the Almighty.
You know what he's saying in revelations?
He's saying this, and Genesis one one, how is him?
All from Genesis one one, the revelation 21, I'm still him.
And he's saying this, when the mother comes, he'll still be God.
When the darkest valley comes,
He'll still be God when the greatest storm of your life comes.
He'll still be God.
He was.
He is.
He ever will be.
He's an almighty God.
He's a permanent God.
That's what he's saying to us.
There's the permanent God.
I'll skip on.
There's several other things I've got wrote down, but not only do we see that.
He is the permanent God.
Note again your text.
Blessed be the Lord God.
the Lord God.
We know that He's a permanent God, but the second name He uses is God.
I see that He's not only permanent, I see that He's powerful.
We serve a powerful God tonight.
Well, yes He is.
The first name we're given by God is to declare himself.
It is the same name, or the second name that we find is given to declare himself.
It's the same name that we find in Genesis 1-1, in the beginning God.
Whenever you study that out, you'll find that it means Elohim.
It's the name that declares God as an almighty God.
Amen.
He's an almighty God.
What did the Bible say in Ephesians chapter number three?
He said, now unto him that is able to do, to do whatever he wants to.
Hey man, the rider goes on to say, now under him, that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we could ask or think.
Can I just say this to you tonight?
We serve a permanent God, but we also serve a powerful God tonight.
There's no situation of that's so bad that God can't take care of it.
There's no mountain so high that God can't take care of it.
There's no center so long.
stuff that God can't save them there's no home so busted up that God can't put it back together he's powerful tonight oh yes he's permanent but he's powerful he's a powerful God then I like this and I move on he's not only a per powerful God in a permanent God but know what he says again blessed be the Lord God now watch this the God of Israel
Yes, I'm glad that he's permanent.
He's not going nowhere.
Are you with me?
He's always been.
He always will be.
He's a permanent God.
I like that.
He's a powerful God.
Oh, yes.
I was thinking about this.
And this young man was here this morning just a couple of days ago, but Stan was at work.
And there was pulling a pump out of a well.
And the guy that he was working with didn't know he was saved.
Brother Stan began to give him the gospel, standing over there, working.
Thank God for a good godly boss man that didn't get mad at you.
Amen.
Are you with me right there?
A lot of people say you can't talk about God on my job.
Thank God for a good godly boss man.
That promotes that.
Brother Stan said, I'm not quoting him verbatim, but I'm sure it was something like this.
Well, son, I know somebody that can help you.
I know somebody that can change your life.
Hey man, I know somebody that can take you out of the mayor and put you up in the choir.
I know somebody that's powerful.
And brother Stan watched that young man bow his head and ask God to save him.
He walked out this morning.
He said, hey, my name's such and such.
I got saved on the job site this week.
We serve a powerful God.
I like that, but I like this one better than any of them.
He said, I'm the God of Israel.
In that, I see that he is a personal God.
Oh, yes, he is a personal God.
I remember Jacob will understand, I guess Jacob went out to smoke.
Jacob, oh, he's back there at the security booth.
Don't go out and smoke while you're back there, man.
Something might happen, we need you in here.
Watch it.
He wasn't gonna go out and smoke, I don't think.
But watch this.
He'll understand a little bit about this because he's part of my family.
He don't understand it completely because he never knew my Paul Barker.
I remember growing up and I grew up in a preacher's home.
This is all I've ever known my whole life.
And can I just say something about that?
I'm thankful.
I have no bad stories to tell.
I'm not a recovering fundamentalist.
I don't have anything to recover from.
Thank God, I am what I am by the grace of God and a mama and daddy that loved Jesus, hadn't preached Jesus to me.
Mama did more than daddy.
Now watch this.
I remember we'd go to prayer room and my pa would be there, my pa Barker and Mater Jenkins, daddy would be in there and an uncle Larry would be in there.
My uncle Jerry would be in there.
And Brother Brian, they'd begin to pray, and it just sounded like thunder.
And I remember it's a boy I thought, how's God understand all this?
Because he's powerful.
That's how he could.
Man, I'm telling you, they're getting a prayer.
I mean the power of God would fall in the prayer room for you ever made it out to the service.
The power of God would fall in there.
Those old men would come out shouting into the service and always thought this, I don't know what that's all about.
But I hope one day I do.
I remember the Talbot Moore was preaching at camp meeting.
Bro, Matt, you remember those days.
Miss Tina, you remember those days.
And I remember a talk about moral.
It's preaching at camp, man.
This is the truth.
He danced across the platform shouting.
You say, well, I don't know about that.
Well, you might want to read your Bible.
There's a couple in the Bible done it.
And when they made fun of David, he said, you wait till tomorrow.
I'll embarrass my own self.
Now, I'm not about no bunch of mess.
You understand that?
I'll never forget, man.
The Burns Trio would get up and sing.
If you've never heard the old burns trio, man, you missing it.
And I remember that lady, the older lady in it, she would begin to say, oh, what a savior is mine.
Boy, them old timers would begin to shout.
My granny, one of the only times you ever heard her shout, Jacob, the burns trio was singing and granny cut loose to shout.
And here's what I thought.
I don't know what all of that is, but I sure hope one day I understand it and I get in on it.
I'll never forget God saved me.
God called me to preach and we was at Dry Creek Baptist Church in Robbinsville, North Carolina.
and the McGill's girls home got the singing about my thibba shelf and before I knew it I had a Christian flag and I was making laps around it can I say something to you tonight what they had and the power that was on their life I said God I don't know what all of it is but I sure would like some of it I'm glad that I've got a God tonight but that's just not a God of my daddy and just not a God of my mother but thank God I've got a
That's my God tonight.
He's personal.
He's a personal God.
He said he's the God of Israel.
Thank God he's real to me.
He's real to me.
There'll be times if you've never been there that you'll come to a place and wonder what in the world you're gonna do.
And I'm gonna tell you something in recent days, I've been there.
I have the preacher don't stand up and talk about everything he goes through because he's trying to help everybody else go through everything.
And I'm gonna tell you something, not long ago my wife and I got to one of those places and in the, in the wee hours of the morning when there wasn't nobody around, I just began to cry out, oh God, oh God couldn't say nothing else.
Didn't know nothing else to say.
All I could do with tears running down my face was cry out, oh, God.
Heading down there in the middle of that basement, in the middle of the night.
Thank God that permanent God, that powerful God, became a personal God to me.
Hadn't come to where I was at.
Thank God he's personal tonight.
He's personal tonight.
You say, preacher, I don't know him that way.
You can.
Whoa, yes, you can.
He's a personal God tonight.
Well, worship that's born out of wonder.
There's the adoration that God deserves.
There's the acclamation that God declares.
But then number three, and we'll go home.
No, y'all go to choir practice.
Now I'll go eat pancakes.
Number three, you say, not eggs and French fries tonight?
No, I've switched up my Sunday night routine.
It's pancakes on Sunday night now because Monday mornings I eat with some of my buddies and it's eggs and french fries on Monday morning.
Number three, don't knock french fries with eggs till you try it.
All right?
And get you some avocado toast to go with it and make it even better.
Number three, I not only see the adorate, I lost half the church, the adoration that God deserves, the acclamation that God declares.
Number three, we're going home.
Number three, I see the appreciation for what God does.
I see the appreciation for what He does.
Now to get our text, He said this, blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only, the only thing God can do is good.
Matter of fact, it don't even say good.
It says wondrous.
The only thing that God can do is wonderful things.
He can't do nothing but wonderful things.
A lot of times, now I don't want to kill it, but if this kills you, it needed to be killed.
A lot of times we get our sin and our mistakes and our failures mixed up with the sovereignty of God.
You go out and do something dumb and get out and sin.
God didn't have nothing to do with that horse.
Because he said with every temptation he makes a way of escape.
And a lot of times we get our mess ups confused with God.
God don't have nothing to do with that.
Thank God he's longsufferable.
Forgive us when we come back.
But I'm gonna tell you something.
Anything God does, if it's of him, it's only wonderful.
He can't do nothing else.
He can't mess up.
Amen.
You say preacher, you don't know how dark it is in my life right now.
God can't mess up.
The thing about this, the appreciation for what he does, the psalmist says he is the one who only do with wonderful things.
I see the assurance of what he does.
The Psalmist declares, only doeth wondrous things.
The emphasis is on the word only.
The Psalmist is saying that everything God does is wondrous.
He's saying that nothing he does is not wonderful.
God only does great and wondrous things.
A.M. Overton said this, my Father's way may twist and turn.
My heart may throb and ache, but in my soul I'm glad to know he maketh no mistake.
Can I say it again?
Some of y'all didn't get it.
A.W.
Overton said, my father's way may twist and turn.
My heart may throb and ache, but in my soul I'm glad to know he maketh no mistake.
Oh yes, there's the assurance of what he does.
And then I'm done.
There's the awesomeness.
of what he does.
Can I say that again?
Be awesomeness.
He's awesome tonight, man.
I'm telling you, he's an awesome God.
Listen to what the Bible says in Psalms 86-10, for thou art great and does wondrous things, thou art God alone.
Psalms 145 said this, I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty and of thy wondrous works.
And men shall speak of the might and thy terrible acts and I will declare thy greatness.
They shall abundantly utter the memory of the great goodness and shall sing of thy righteousness.
The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger, and of great mercy.
The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works.
All thy works shall praise thee, O Lord, and thy saints shall bless thee.
Simon Grunberg said this, God, the uncreated creator of everything.
That's deep.
Can I just say that?
He said, God, the uncreated creator of everything.
He's always been, and the reason anything's here is because he's always been decided to speak it into existence.
Oh yes, something says that God stood up off of his throne and began to create the world.
I just don't know that we can find that, but I can find this that he spoke and the world was.
Oh yes, the awesomeness of God.
God created everything out of nothing in Genesis one.
What about Exodus 14?
God parted the Red Sea.
What about Exodus 16?
God gave bread from heaven.
What about Joshua chapter number 10?
When God stopped the sun.
What about First Kings chapter 18?
When God brought fire from heaven.
What about Daniel chapter number six?
When God shut the lion's mouth.
What about Matthew chapter 14?
God walked on the water.
What about John chapter number 11?
When God raised Lazarus from the dead.
What about that day in your life when you was dead in trespassings of sin and had nothing to do with God?
But this great God, this powerful God, this omnipresent God came to you where you was at in your lost condition and rescued you out of the flames of hell
I told, I hadn't changed your life.
He's an awesome God.
Oh, yes, he is.
I thought about this, Miss Tanya's coming to start playing.
I thought about this, he's an awesome God.
What about Revelation chapter 21 when he says this?
He that sat upon the throne said, behold, I make all things new.
You know what that means?
Here's what that means tonight.
There's a brighter day coming.
That's what that means.
I don't understand God all the time.
It's okay to say amen right there.
Matter of fact, you've heard me mention it.
I'm sure some of you's listening to it.
But where Dr. House preached that message on, me and God doesn't always agree.
If you haven't listened to it, you ought to go listen to it.
They sometimes say, me and God don't always agree.
I remember several years ago,
Remember several years ago and I don't don't condemn me right here because I've got right with God since then.
Don't do it no more.
That's on the golf course.
You say why'd you quit playing because it costs too much when I went.
We got visitors tonight.
I really didn't.
I may have thought about it, but I didn't say it.
Watch this.
Don't ever forget it's on golf course.
It's during camp meeting.
October during camp.
My phone run.
I looked down and it said, Mater.
And I told them, God's just playing with us.
I said, I got to get this.
I said, this one preacher boys, I'm a church first guy to ever surrender preach out of the church.
And I said, his wife's been having some health issues.
They're going back and forth to the doctor.
And they had a big appointment today.
I really need to get this.
So I answered the phone and got away from everybody.
Mater said, hey preacher, it's me.
I said, hey buddy.
He said, I really need you.
And I said, I'll tell you what, let me get off the golf course.
I said, I'll just leave them where I'm at.
I'm going to go get Miss Leslie.
And they was living up in Sparta then.
And I guess that was considered Sparta up there where y'all was at.
Passing a little church up there.
God had miraculously changed their life.
He said, we didn't get good news with Bridget today.
I said, I'll be up there a little while.
And we didn't even talk no more on the phone.
We practically hung up.
I left the golf course and went and got Miss Leslie.
I called Daddy and said, hey, I'm not going to be at camp meeting tonight.
I got to go be with Mater.
And he said, well, watch the news.
And I said, I don't know.
I'll never forget we got up there.
And me and Miss Leslie walked in and Mater and Bridget and the boys was there.
And Bridget looked at us and she said, preacher Miss Leslie, it's not good.
And I said, well, what is it?
And she said, today they diagnosed me with sporadic Lou Gehrich disease.
Knew that I know the majority of all of us here are very familiar with it.
We've had numerous people in our church die with it.
And we've got people in our church that's got it right now.
And I, well, Williams had just didn't know what to say.
And I've come far enough
Well, Kirkman, I don't know it all to miss, but I come far enough to know that it's okay not to say nothing.
I was sat there.
We cried, cried and cried.
I said, well, Lord's gonna help us through it.
We're gonna pray God touch you, Miss Bridget.
Pray God helps you.
We prayed together.
We prayed that day for God's will to be done fast forward and not long at all.
Ms. Bridget went home to be with the Lord.
Can I just tell you something that tonight, me and God don't necessarily agree on that.
Her husband was pastor in the church.
It was thriving, growing, busting out the scenes.
I just, I don't know.
And I still don't know today, Peyton.
Mater, I still don't understand it today.
Jacob and Elijah, the boys are sitting back there still in church.
could very easily got bitter at God for taking mom at such a young age, but you're sitting in church tonight, nodding her head at me as I was preaching.
Daddy's sitting there shouting while I was preaching.
I don't understand all of it, but I know this.
God didn't mess up.
And the only thing God can do is wonderful things.
I don't praise God.
Listen to me.
I don't praise God for my situation.
I praise God because He's sovereign.
We don't praise God because of our situation all the time.
The reason we praise God is because He's God.
That's why we praise Him.
That's why we lift a hand in the midst of the midnight and go, Lord, you're still God and you're still good.
That's why when everything is going wrong in our life and we don't understand.
We can still say, you know what I'm gonna do?
I'm gonna choose to raise a hand and say, God, you're still God.
You've never messed up.
You've never made a mistake.
I may not understand it.
I never will understand it down here.
But he told us there's coming a day that he'll make all things new.
I'm glad this is not the end.
I'm glad this is not the last of the story.
Thank God there is a brighter day that's coming.
For the Lord himself, that great God, for the Lord himself, shout a sin with a shout.
with the voice of the archangel.
And the dead in Christ shall rise first.
Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together to meet them in the clouds.
And so shall we ever be with the Lord.
And he goes on to say this, wherefore comfort one another with these words of the comfort that we have.
The reason we still praise, the reason we still worship, it's because he's God, because he's God.
That's why we still worship.
Worship born out of wonder.